---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Run a Node

## Automated deployment

Execute init.sh in the root directory to run the local node via an automation script

```shell
    init.sh
```

:::caution
The ❗️ automation script will delete all pre-existing binaries that have been installed. If you want to keep the binaries and other configuration files, please use manual deployment.
署。
:::

## Manual deployment

### Start node

```shell
    treasurenetd start --json-rpc.enable=true --json-rpc.api="eth,web3,net"
```

### Key Management

Run a node using the same Key each time: replace treasurenetd keys add $KEY in init.sh.

```shell
    echo "your mnemonic here" | treasurenetd keys add $KEY --recover
```

:::caution
treasurenet now only supports 24-word mnemonics
:::

You can register a new key/helper word:

```shell
    treasurenetd keys add $KEY
```

To export your treasurenetd private key as an Ethereum private key (e.g. to use with Metamask)

```shell
    treasurenetd keys unsafe-export-eth-key $KEY

```

More information about the key command can be found at --help

```shell
    treasurenetd keys -h
```

### Clearing data from chain

#### Reset Data

You can reset the blockchain data, delete the addresses stored in the nodes (address book) and reset the creation status of priv_validator.json.

:::caution
❗️ If you are running a validator node, usually be very careful with the unsafe-reset-all command.

❗️ Make sure that each node has a separate priv_validator.json file. Do not try to copy this file from an old node to a new one; using the same priv_validator.json file on both nodes will cause your nodes to double sign.

:::

First, delete all expired files and reset your data

```shell
    rm $HOME/.treasurenetd/config/addrbook.json $HOME/.treasurenetd/config/genesis.json
    treasurenetd tendermint unsafe-reset-all --home $HOME/.treasurenetd
```

Your node is now in its initial state, while keeping the initial priv_validator.json and config.toml. If you set any before, your node will try to connect to them.

#### Delete Data

The data generated by treasurenetd's binary tool is stored in ~/.treasurenetd by default, and the existing binaries and configuration information can be deleted using the following command

```shell

    rm -rf ～/.treasurenetd

```
